Editorial review: Document CSS multicol column wrapping (#42934)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/column-wrap/index.md

---
title: column-wrap
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/column-wrap
page-type: css-property
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: css.properties.column-wrap
sidebar: cssref
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}

The **`column-wrap`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property specifies the wrapping behavior of overflow columns in a [CSS multi-column layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Multicol_layout).

## Syntax

```css
/* Keywords */
column-wrap: auto;
column-wrap: nowrap;
column-wrap: wrap;

/* Global values */
column-wrap: inherit;
column-wrap: initial;
column-wrap: revert;
column-wrap: revert-layer;
column-wrap: unset;
```

### Values

- `auto`
  - : The initial value. If the content container's {{cssxref("column-height")}} is set to a specific {{cssxref("&lt;length>")}}, `auto` resolves to `wrap`, otherwise it resolves to `nowrap`.
- `nowrap`

>   - : Overflow columns are created in the inline direction.

Author: Yeah, "create" is not the right word here. I updated it to "Columns overflow in the inline direction."

  articles may use some of those new features. Most of the time, this happens
  between the
  <a href="https://tc39.es/process-document/" class="external" target="_blank"
    >stages</a
  >
  3 and 4, and is usually before the spec is officially published.
</p>
<p>
  Do not confuse JavaScript with the
  <a
    href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_(programming_language)"
    class="external"
    target="_blank"
    >Java programming language</a
  >
  — <strong>JavaScript is <em>not</em> "Interpreted Java"</strong>. Both "Java"
  and "JavaScript" are trademarks or registered trademarks of Oracle in the U.S.
  and other countries. However, the two programming languages have very
  different syntax, semantics, and use.
</p>
<p>
  JavaScript documentation of core language features (pure
  <a
    href="/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/JavaScript_technologies_overview"
    >ECMAScript</a
  >, for the most part) includes the following:
</p>
```

#### CSS

We start by giving the {{htmlelement("body")}} element a {{cssxref("column-count")}} of `3`. We then set a {{cssxref("gap")}} of `3em 2em`, resulting in a `3em` gap between rows and a `2em` gap between columns.

> We then set a `column-height` of `90vh`, making the columns nearly as tall as the viewport. We also set `column-wrap` to `nowrap`. Because the initial `column-wrap` value is `auto`, which resolves to `wrap` when `column-height` is set to a `<length>` value, this forces excess content columns to overflow horizontally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then set a `column-height` of `90vh`, making the columns nearly as tall as the viewport. We also set `column-wrap` to `nowrap`, making excess content columns overflow horizontally.
```

}

p:first-of-type {
  margin-top: 0;
}
```

```css hidden live-sample___wrap-nowrap
* {
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

html {
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
}

p {
  line-height: 1.5;
}

@supports not (column-wrap: wrap) {
  body::before {
    content: "Your browser does not support the 'column-wrap' property.";
    background-color: wheat;
    position: fixed;
    inset: 40% 0;
    height: fit-content;
    text-align: center;
    padding: 1rem 0;
  }
}

form {
  position: fixed;
  top: 0;
  right: 0;
  background-color: white;
  padding: 5px;
  border: 1px solid black;
}
```

#### JavaScript

In our JavaScript, we set a `change` event listener on the checkbox. When its value changes, we set the `<body>` element's `column-wrap` value to `wrap` if it is checked, and `nowrap` otherwise.

```js live-sample___wrap-nowrap
const checkbox = document.getElementById("set-wrap");
checkbox.addEventListener("change", () => {
  if (checkbox.checked) {
    document.body.style.columnWrap = "wrap";
  } else {
    document.body.style.columnWrap = "nowrap";
  }
});
```

#### Result

The rendered result looks like this:

{{EmbedLiveSample("wrap-nowrap", "100%", "400")}}

> Initially, try scrolling the content horizontally to see the effect of `content-wrap: nowrap`. Now check the checkbox, and note how the layout switches to vertically scrolling, with each new row of columns filling the viewport.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change the value of the `column-wrap` property by toggling the checkbox and scroll the content to see how the layout switches between horizontal and vertically scrolling, with columns either overflowing in the horizontal direction (`nowrap`) or new rows of columns being added in the vertical direction (`wrap`).
```
